create infrastructure configurations for backend and environments (#21)
navapbc/template-application-nextjs: infra/README.md

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform plan` command creates an execution plan, which lets you preview the changes that Terraform plans to make to your infrastructure. By default, when Terraform creates a plan it:

- Reads the current state of any already-existing remote objects to make sure that the Terraform state is up-to-date.
- Compares the current configuration to the prior state and noting any differences.
- Proposes a set of change actions that should, if applied, make the remote objects match the configuration.

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform apply` command executes the actions proposed in a Terraform plan.

<span style="color:red"> ---- DANGER ----</span>\
In a non-development environment comment out a resource to destroy, destroy should only be used as a way to cleanup a development environment. e.g. a developers workspace after they are done with it.

&nbsp;&nbsp; The `terraform destroy` command is a convenient way to destroy all remote objects managed by a particular Terraform configuration.\

For more information about terraform commands follow the link below:

- [Basic CLI Features](https://www.terraform.io/cli/commands)

## Terraform Backend

### infra/bootstrap/account

> 1. Rename bootstrap/account, account directory to the name of the aws account alias or account id where this infrastructure will be hosted.

Reviewer: Would the intent here for recommended usage be that we have a 1:1 relationship between `bootstrap/account` folders and `envs/environment` folders?

i.e.

- `bootstrap/my-project-test` and `envs/test`
- `boostrap/my-project-staging` and `envs/staging`
- etc.

Just confirming my understanding since the PR has multiple env folders and one bootstrap folder at the moment. thx!

Author: The relationship would be 1:1 in a multi-account setup. If a project were required to host multiple environments in a single account, then all environments would end up pointing to a single bootstrap/account backend. These drawings below will be added to this document as a visual aid.

See link below: 
https://lucid.app/lucidchart/66ee71f6-e9e1-41e3-97b6-7bd4c80b6670/edit?viewport_loc=-3561%2C173%2C2736%2C1423%2C0_0&invitationId=inv_e4cd8c17-8242-4cc2-ba4a-92b4ef8d8d44#

Reviewer: the diagram is super helpful, thank you!

2. Customize the variables in locals{} at the top of main.tf to match the desired deployment setup.
3. Open a terminal and cd into the infra/bootstrap/account directory and run the following commands:
    - terraform init
    - terraform plan
    - terrafrom apply

> 4. Uncomment out the backend "s3" {} block, fill in the appropriate information from outputs and repeate step `3.` to switch from local to remote backend.

Reviewer: oh interesting! didn't think to do it this way on PFML 😛 guessing terraform doesn't get confused about running `terraform destroy` and destroying it's own tf state bucket along the way.

Reviewer 2: Oh interesting, is this a better way to do it? Or should the remote backend be managed separately?

Author: If a developer were to come in a few months later, somehow CD into the bootstrap/account and then run a `terraform destroy` It would destroy the backend, then throw an error stating it cannot find the backend. I created a
```
  lifecycle {
    prevent_destroy = true
  }
```

on the s3 buckets created to host state files, just in case that scenario were to occur.

Default region name [None]: us-east-2
Default output format [None]: json
```
**Using the above command will create a [default] profile.**  
```
$ aws configure --profile dev
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: us-east-2
Default output format [None]: json
```
**Using the above command will create a [dev] profile.**  

### References:

- [Configuration basics][1]
- [Named profiles for the AWS CLI][2]
- [Configuration and credential file settings][3]

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html
[2]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html
[3]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html

## Basic Terraform Commands 

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform init` command is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration or cloning an existing one from version control. It is safe to run this command multiple times.

> &nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform plan` command creates an execution plan, which lets you preview the changes that Terraform plans to make to your infrastructure. By default, when Terraform creates a plan it:

Author: Oh yes,

- Reads the current state of any already-existing remote objects to make sure that the Terraform state is up-to-date.
- Compares the current configuration to the prior state and noting any differences.
- Proposes a set of change actions that should, if applied, make the remote objects match the configuration.

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform apply` command executes the actions proposed in a Terraform plan.

> <span style="color:red"> ---- DANGER ----</span>\
> In a non-development environment comment out a resource to destroy, destroy should only be used as a way to cleanup a development environment. e.g. a developers workspace after they are done with it.
> 
> &nbsp;&nbsp; The `terraform destroy` command is a convenient way to destroy all remote objects managed by a particular Terraform configuration.\

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp; The `terraform destroy` command is a convenient way to destroy all remote objects managed by a particular Terraform configuration. Use `terraform plan -destroy` to preview what remote objects will be destroyed if you run `terraform destroy`.

⚠️ WARNING! ⚠️ This is a destructive command! As a best practice, it's recommended that you comment out resources in non-development environments rather than running this command. `terraform destroy` should only be used as a way to cleanup a development environment. e.g. a developers workspace after they are done with it.
```

For more information about terraform commands follow the link below:

- [Basic CLI Features](https://www.terraform.io/cli/commands)

## Terraform Backend

> 

Reviewer 3: Since this is different than we've done on other projects like Mass PFML, I think we should add a little bit of writing here to just say that the approach is to store the terraform backend in AWS using its own resources.

Author: Will, I will also add the purpose is to separate the backend infra configuration from the application infra configuration.

### infra/bootstrap/account

> 1. Rename bootstrap/account, account directory to the name of the aws account alias or account id where this infrastructure will be hosted.

Reviewer 3: Which part of the directory should be renamed? Should it end up being something like `bootstrap/wic-mt`? Could you include an example to make this clearer?

Author: Yes

2. Customize the variables in locals{} at the top of main.tf to match the desired deployment setup.
3. Open a terminal and cd into the infra/bootstrap/account directory and run the following commands:
    - terraform init
    - terraform plan
    - terrafrom apply
4. Uncomment out the backend "s3" {} block, fill in the appropriate information from outputs and repeate step `3.` to switch from local to remote backend.

``` tf
  backend "s3" {
    bucket         = "AWS_ACCOUNT_ID-AWS_REGION-tf-state"
    key            = "terraform/backend/terraform.tfstate"
    region         = "REGION_OF_BUCKET"
    encrypt        = "true"
    dynamodb_table = "tf_state_locks"
  }
```
5. Once these steps are complete, this should not need to be touched again, application infrastructure is managed under its envs/environment as described below.

> 

Reviewer 3: Let's move the initial setup diagram to this point in the README.

> Note: For subsequent accounts if using a multi-account setup, copy the entire account directory and repeat the previous steps for each account.

Reviewer 3: Let's move this note about multi-account setup into the later multi-account section.

Author: Will do.

### infra/envs/environment

> &nbsp;&nbsp;To get started with an environment copy the backend configuration created in the above instructions and copy into the terraform { backend "s3" {} } block to setup the remote backend for the environment. This is where all of the infrastructure for the application will be managed. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp;Specify different environments for the application in this section. This template repo includes three example environments: test, staging, and prod. 

To get started with an environment, copy the backend configuration created in the "infra/bootstrap/account" instructions above into the terraform { backend "s3" {} } block to setup the remote backend for the environment. This is where all of the infrastructure for the application will be managed. 
```

> ### Multi vs Single Cloud Account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Multi-Cloud Accounts vs Single Cloud Accounts
```

> &nbsp;&nbsp;In a multi-cloud account, multi-environment setup the relationship between the bootstrap/account(s) and envs/environement(s) should be 1:1. In a single-cloud account, multi-environment setup ensure that the backend "s3" { key = path/to/terraform.tfstate} is unique for the backend, as well as each environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp;In a simpler single cloud account setup, there is one cloud account that contains the resources created for managing terraform itself, as well as the resources created for each environment.

<insert single cloud diagram here>

In a multi-cloud account, multi-environment setup, the relationship between the bootstrap/account(s) and envs/environement(s) should be 1:1. In a single-cloud account, multi-environment setup ensure that the backend "s3" { key = path/to/terraform.tfstate} is unique for the backend, as well as each environment.

<insert multi-cloud diagram here>
```
I didn't make suggestions for your existing paragraph because I have the following questions:

> In a multi-cloud account, multi-environment setup the relationship between the bootstrap/account(s) and envs/environement(s) should be 1:1.

Does it need to be 1:1 between the bootstrap/accounts and the environments? Couldn't you have one bootstrap account for staging and one bootstrap account for test and prod?

> In a single-cloud account, multi-environment setup ensure that the backend "s3" { key = path/to/terraform.tfstate} is unique for the backend, as well as each environment.

Is this not necessary for multip-cloud, multip-environment setups? If so, can this just be simplified down to all `s3.keys` need to be unique?

Author: The keys only need to be unique if they share the same account and are not workspaces. Workspaces appends to the path in the key automatically. Alternative to unique keys would be to create multiple buckets in the single infra/account . We should probably discuss this more.

# Diagrams

## Initial Setup
<img src="../docs/imgs/initial_setup.svg" width="50%"/>

## Multi-Cloud
<img src="../docs/imgs/multi_cloud.svg" width="50%"/>

## Single-Cloud

> <img src="../docs/imgs/single_cloud.svg" width="50%"/>

Reviewer 3: Let's move these diagrams inline as suggested above.

Author: Will do

# Workspaces

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp; Workspaces can be used here to allow multiple engineers to deploy their own stacks for development and testing. This allows multiple engineers to develop on a single environment's terraform files without overwriting each other. Separate resources will be created for each engineer.
```

### Terraform workspace commands:

`terraform workspace show [Name]`   - This command will show the workspace you working in.

`terraform workspace list [Name]`   - This command will list all workspaces.

`terraform workspace new [Name]`    - This command will create a new workspace.

`terraform workspace select [Name]` - This command will switch your workspace to the workspace you select.

`terraform workspace delete [Name]` - This command will delete the specified workspace. (does not delete infrastructure, that step will done first)

> ## Workspaces - Staging Environment
> &nbsp;&nbsp; Workspaces can be used here to allow multiple developers to deploy their own stacks for development and testing. If workspaces wont be necessary for this project set the prefix variable to "staging."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Template Repo Workspaces 
&nbsp;&nbsp; In this template repo, we've suggested that workspaces be used only for the staging environment.
```

Reviewer 3: @shawnvanderjagt @aplybeah Do we want the environment that we set up for workspaces to be staging or test? I thought we said test

``` tf
# Example resource using the prefix
resource "aws_instance" "self" {
  ami           = "ami-0cff7528ff583bf9a"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  tags = {
    Name = "${local.prefix}-instance"
  }
}
```

> 
> ## Workspaces - Test Environment
> 
> &nbsp;&nbsp; **Do not use workspaces**
> 
> ## Workspaces - Prod Environment
> 
> &nbsp;&nbsp; **Do not use workspaces**
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If workspaces wont be necessary for your project, set the prefix variable in the <what file> to "staging."
<insert example of how to do this properly here>
```

### References:

- [Configuration basics][1]
- [Named profiles for the AWS CLI][2]
- [Configuration and credential file settings][3]

[1]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-quickstart.html
[2]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-profiles.html
[3]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html

## Basic Terraform Commands 

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform init` command is used to initialize a working directory containing Terraform configuration files. This is the first command that should be run after writing a new Terraform configuration or cloning an existing one from version control.

&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform plan` command creates an execution plan, which lets you preview the changes that Terraform plans to make to your infrastructure. By default, when Terraform creates a plan it:

- Reads the current state of any already-existing remote objects to make sure that the Terraform state is up-to-date.
- Compares the current configuration to the prior state and noting any differences.
- Proposes a set of change actions that should, if applied, make the remote objects match the configuration.

> &nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform apply` command executes the actions proposed in a Terraform plan deploying the infrastructure specified in the configuraiton. Use with caution. The configuration becomes idempotent once a subsequent apply returns 0 changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp;The `terraform apply` command executes the actions proposed in a Terraform plan deploying the infrastructure specified in the configuration. Use with caution. The configuration becomes idempotent once a subsequent apply returns 0 changes.
```

## Terraform Backend Management

&nbsp;&nbsp;The approach to backend management allows Terraform to both create the resources needed for a remote backend as well as allow terraform to store that configuration state in that newly created backend. This also allows us to seperate infrastructure required to support terraform from infrastructure required to support the application. Because each backend, bootstrap or environment, store their own terraform.tfstate in these buckets, ensure that any backends that are shared use a unique key. When using a non-default workspace, the state path will be `/workspace_key_prefix/workspace_name/key`, `workspace_key_prefix` default is `env:`

### infra/bootstrap/account

1. Rename account to the name of the aws account alias or account id where this infrastructure will be hosted. e.g. `./bootstrap/account` becomes `./bootstrap/aws_account_id`
2. Customize the variables in locals{} at the top of main.tf to match the desired deployment setup.
3. Open a terminal and cd into the infra/bootstrap/account directory and run the following commands:
    - terraform init
    - terraform plan
    - terrafrom apply

> 4. Uncomment out the backend "s3" {} block, fill in the appropriate information from outputs and re-initilize terraform to copy the terraform.tfstate from local to remote backend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Uncomment out the backend "s3" {} block, fill in the appropriate information from outputs and re-run step 3 to copy the terraform.tfstate from local to remote backend.
```

``` tf
  backend "s3" {
    bucket         = "ACCOUNT_ID-REGION-tf-state"
    key            = "terraform/backend/terraform.tfstate"
    region         = "REGION"
    encrypt        = "true"
    dynamodb_table = "tf_state_locks"
  }
```
5. Once these steps are complete, this should not need to be touched again, application infrastructure is managed under its envs/environment as described below.

> ## Initial Setup

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
Let's remove this header

<img src="../docs/imgs/multi_cloud.svg" width="50%"/>

# Workspaces
&nbsp;&nbsp; Terraform workspaces are created by default, the default workspace is named "default." Workspaces are used to allow multiple engineers to deploy their own stacks for development and testing. This allows multiple engineers to develop new features in parallel using a single environment without destroying each others infrastructure. Separate resources will be created for each engineer when using the prefix variable.

### Terraform workspace commands:

`terraform workspace show [Name]`   - This command will show the workspace you working in.

`terraform workspace list [Name]`   - This command will list all workspaces.

`terraform workspace new [Name]`    - This command will create a new workspace.

`terraform workspace select [Name]` - This command will switch your workspace to the workspace you select.

`terraform workspace delete [Name]` - This command will delete the specified workspace. (does not delete infrastructure, that step will done first)

## Workspaces and prefix - A How To

> &nbsp;&nbsp; Workspaces are used to allow multiple developers to deploy their own stacks for development and testing. By default prefix is set to terraform.workspace in the envs/dev environment, it is stage and prod in those respective environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp; Workspaces are used to allow multiple developers to deploy their own stacks for development and testing. By default "prefix~ is set to `terraform.workspace` in the envs/dev environment, it is `staging` and `prod` in those respective environments.
```

### envs/dev/main.tf
``` tf
locals {
  prefix = terraform.workspace
}

module "example" {
  source  = "../../modules/example"
  prefix  = local.prefix
}

```

### modules/example/variables.tf - When creating a new module create the variable "prefix" in your variables.tf
``` tf

variable "prefix" {
  type        = string
  description = "prefix used to uniquely identify resources, allows parallel development"

}

```
### modules/example/main.tf - Use var.prefix to uniquely name resources for parallel development.
``` tf

# Create the S3 bucket with a unique prefix from terraform.workspace.
resource "aws_s3_bucket" "example" {
  bucket = "${var.prefix}-bucket"

}

```

> The resulting bucket name created in the aws account will be shawn-bucket. If resources are not actively prefixed and two developers deploy the same resource the developer who runs their deployment second will overwrite the deployment of the first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When in the workspace "shawn", the resulting bucket name created in the aws account will be `shawn-bucket`. This prevents the following undesirable situation: If resources are not actively prefixed and two developers deploy the same resource, the developer who runs their deployment second will overwrite the deployment of the first.
```
